---
layout: post
title: "US-RSE Celebrates and Reflects on Pride this June"
tags: [dei, pride]
author: Lance Parsons, Alex Koufos
---

US-RSE's [DEI working group (DEI-WG)](https://us-rse.org/wg/dei/) is proud to
help US-RSE celebrate and participate in [Pride
Month](https://www.loc.gov/lgbt-pride-month/).

Throughout the month members of our community will be writing blog posts
recognizing compelling stories about LGBTQ+ people who have been involved in
computing, science, engineering, and/or math, and have inspired our members
through their accomplishments in their careers and their personal stories.
We'll be publishing these posts each Monday during June to highlight such
people, where we talk about the person and tie their work and life to the RSE
movement.

In conjunction with the weekly blog posts, we ask the community to think about
how they will celebrate and reflect on pride this month. This will likely come
in many different forms for each individual. The DEI-WG will be hosting the
July community call with questions about LGBTQ+ allyship in mind. Checkout the
resources below to help your introspection throughout the month. Further
resources will be posted throughout the month, including upcoming events, such
as our [DEI-WG Media Club
call](https://us-rse.org/events/repeated/dei-media-club/) (Thursday, June 15 at
9PT/12ET).

Weâ€™d also like to bring to your attention a new
[#lgbtq](https://usrse.slack.com/archives/C056NFHET97) Slack channel: "A place
for LGBTQ+ folks to gather and chat!" The
[#lgbtq](https://usrse.slack.com/archives/C056NFHET97) and
[#dei-discussion](https://usrse.slack.com/archives/C01C8CJQ7AP) Slack
channels provide space for all of us to discuss our thoughts.

Lastly, a big thanks to [@Reed
Milewicz](https://usrse.slack.com/team/U02J6HG7E81) for designing the US-RSE
Pride Month logo(s). Thanks Reed! Be sure to check out this [article about the
history of the Pride Flag and its many variants
(Wikipedia)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rainbow_flag_(LGBT)#Variations).

<a href="https://github.com/USRSE/logo/tree/master/current_logo/pride"><img
src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/USRSE_Pride_6ColorChevronsSquare.png"
alt="US-RSE Progress Pride Logo - Square" style="height:200px; float:left;
padding: 1em"></a>

<a href="https://github.com/USRSE/logo/tree/master/current_logo/pride"><img
src="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/img/USRSE_Pride_6ColorChevronsFull.png"
alt="US-RSE Progress Pride Logo - Wide" style="height:200px; padding: 1em"></a>
