---
layout: post
title: "Pride Inspired In Science: Alan Turing, Ben Barres, and Legacies"
tags: [dei, pride]
author: Peter Vaillancourt
---

Pride month has always been both a fight and a celebration for the LGBTQ+
community, and for me that continues to ring true as my own rights - as a trans
man - are threatened across this nation in 2023. [^aclu]  The very first Pride
march was held in honor of the Stonewall Uprising of 1969, a moment where the
people of our community chose to stand up for themselves and refuse to be
silenced, erased, or persecuted any more. [^loc]  It was not the first time
LGBTQ+ people had to make that choice, nor will today be the last day.  And the
annual celebration of Pride that we engage in each June honors that choice to
continue to exist, and dare to thrive, in the face of adversity.

The communities in which scientists, researchers, academics, and all other
forms of Research Software Engineers exist are unfortunately not an exception
to the norms of society that do not always accept or embrace LGBTQ+ identities.
However, these [blogs that we in the Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI)
Working Group of US-RSE have put out throughout the month of June]({% post_url
2023-06-01-pride-month %}) are an intention to highlight some of those
individuals in the history of science and technology who have risen above the
challenges we face, and been able to shine. They have shone bright as role
models because of their career accomplishments and their bravery in choosing to
live an honest life by being true to themselves and those they love.  So in
today’s post, I would like to talk about two such people who have been role
models to me as I have navigated my own career as a trans man in science and
technology.

### Alan Turing

{% include image.html
url="https://collectionimages.npg.org.uk/std/mw165875/Alan-Turing.jpg"
description="National Portrait Gallery, London, CC BY 3.0
<http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-nd/3.0/>" style="float:right;
padding:1em; max-width:350px; margin: 0px;" image-style="max-width:300px;
width:100%" %}

You may have heard of Alan Turing, known to many as “the father of computer
science and artificial intelligence,” a British mathematician, and a victim of
homophobic laws. [^ae]  You can find numerous accounts of his life in popular
culture now, through film, books, and so on.  I do not endeavor to improve upon
their account here, only to speak about the personal effect he has had on me.

I first read Alan Turing’s famous paper “On computable numbers, with an
application to the Entscheidungsproblem” [^at] when I was an undergraduate
student studying applied mathematics and physics.  A friend in the computer
science lab that I frequented had suggested it to me as something I might
enjoy, and I think it would be fair to say that it changed my life.  This was
the era of my epiphany that all computation, at the core, is truly just
mathematics.  My burgeoning love of mathematics joined with a new fascination
for the world of computing in a way that has propelled my mind and my career
since.  But more than that, I had a secret.

By the time I was reading Alan Turing’s paper, you see, I had already started
my transition several years before.  I had gone through various stages of
coming out multiple times (first for sexual orientation, then gender identity)
as a teenager and then young adult.  I had endured a lot of rejection, and
settled on a life where I barely told anyone at my undergraduate university
about my gender identity.  I was fortunate enough to be seen as male, which was
satisfying, but left some longing to be known more fully and embraced.  Through
the story of Turing’s life, his honesty in being true to himself even when he
faced legal repercussions, was inspiring to me. [^glsen]  His life and his work
gave me hope that someday I could have both a meaningful career _and_ be known.
I have held onto that hope ever since, and these days I am proud to say that I
live that honest life.  I am visible in the hopes that some other student may
one day be inspired too.

### Ben Barres

{% include image.html
url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/76/Dr._Ben_Barres.jpg"
description="Myelin Repair Foundation, CC BY 2.0
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0>, via Wikimedia Commons"
style="float:right; padding:1em; max-width:350px; margin: 0px;"
image-style="max-width:350px; width:100%" %}

While a much less well-known name, Ben Barres has had a profound impact on me
and the scientific community.  His career as a neuroscientist and
neurobiologist at Stanford University involved groundbreaking work in glial
cells as well as advocacy for gender equality in science. [^bb],[^freeman]
After coming out in 1997, he experienced dramatically different treatment as a
scientist simply because he was perceived as male.  His natural response was to
then become a vocal advocate for women in science.  One major example of this
is his 2006 Nature paper called "Does gender matter?" [^bb2], which scientifically
breaks down and refutes the argument of innate ability based on gender.  If you
have not read it, I highly recommend it.

For me personally, Ben Barres completely shifted the realm of possibilities I
considered when I thought of becoming a scientist.  He was the _first_
transgender scientist I had ever heard of, and the first role model I felt a
genuine kinship with naturally.  His story validated my own in so many ways
that I sorely needed, and demonstrated to me the need for visibility of
diversity in science.  

Furthermore, in every corner of science, mathematics, technology, etc. that I
have existed in, I have seen and felt the difference of being treated better
than my female colleagues when I am seen as "just another guy" in the room.  It
is only when I have been open about being transgender that I have sometimes
become the target of similar forms of bias, and thus, the desire to improve
gender equity is always in my heart and mind.  Looking back, I credit Ben
Barres as the initial catalyst that drove me to DEI efforts, where I continue
to pour out my passion in the hopes of building a better, more equitable,
scientific community where all people’s contributions are valued.

### Leaving a Legacy

As Pride month is coming to a close today, I am reflecting on the impediments
we have overcome, but I am also looking forward to the outcomes of the seeds of
hope we are planting today simply by celebrating.  By celebrating the life of
Alan Turing and Ben Barres, I realize the potential for the legacy that myself
and my contemporaries will leave.  What students will decide to pursue a career
in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics because of the work you
are doing today?  Whether you are a member of the LGBTQ+ community or an ally,
I hope that you can be a part of the legacy that we are leaving to continue the
fight and the celebration of Pride.  I am proud of who I am today, and hopeful
about where we’re going.

### References

[^aclu]: Over 120 bills restricting LGBTQ rights introduced nationwide in 2023
    so far. American Civil Liberties Union. (2023, June 28).
    [https://www.aclu.org/press-releases/over-120-bills-restricting-lgbtq-rights-introduced-nationwide-2023-so-far]

[^loc]: About&nbsp; :&nbsp; Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and Queer Pride
    month&nbsp; :&nbsp; library of Congress. The Library of Congress. (n.d.).
    [https://www.loc.gov/lgbt-pride-month/about/#annual-pride-traditions]

[^ae]: A&amp;E Networks Television. (n.d.). Alan Turing Biography.
    Biography.com. [https://www.biography.com/scientists/alan-turing]

[^at]: Turing, A.M. (1937), On Computable Numbers, with an Application to the
    Entscheidungsproblem. Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society,
    s2-42: 230-265. [https://doi.org/10.1112/plms/s2-42.1.230]

[^glsen]: Alan Turing: True to Himself. 2015. Glsen.
    [https://www.glsen.org/sites/default/files/Alan%20Turing%20True%20to%20Himself-Final.pdf]

[^bb]: Barres, B., &amp; Hopkins, N. (2020). The autobiography of a transgender
    scientist. The MIT Press.

[^freeman]: Freeman, M. (2018). Ben Barres: Neuroscience Pioneer, Gender
    Champion. Nature, 562(7728), 492–492.
    [https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-018-07109-2]

[^bb2]: Barres, B. A. (2006). Does gender matter? Nature, 442(7099), 133–136.
    [https://doi.org/10.1038/442133a]
