---
layout: post
title: "US-RSE Pride Month Spotlight - Sally Ride"
tags: [dei, pride-month]
author: Lance Parsons 
---

US-RSE's [DEI working group (DEI-WG)](https://us-rse.org/wg/dei/) is proud to
help US-RSE celebrate and participate in Pride Month. Throughout June, the
US-RSE will spotlight LGBTQ+ individuals who have been involved in computing,
science, engineering, and/or math, and have inspired our members through their
accomplishments in their careers and their personal stories.

## This week's Pride Month spotlight features Sally Ride

{% include image.html
url="https://science.nasa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/1760_670919main_Ride-835.jpg?w=1536&format=webp"
description="Sally Ride, NASA"
style="float:right; padding:1em; max-width:350px;" %}

Many know Sally Ride as the first American Woman in space, a truly remarkable
accomplishment. Not as many people know that Sally was also the first astronaut
known to have been a member of the LGBTQ+ community. While she was married to
astronaut Steven Hawley during her spaceflight years, her long-term
relationship with Women's Tennis Association player Tam O'Shaughnessy remained
largely private until after [Ride's death in
2012](https://www.npr.org/sections/thetwo-way/2012/07/23/157250870/sally-ride-first-american-woman-in-space-is-dead).

Dr. Ride was a physicist and accepted into the space program in 1978, along
with five other women in NASA Astronaut Group 8. The group's name for itself
was "TFNG", which publicly stood for "Thirty-Five New Guys", but inside the
group it stood for "the f*cking new guy".

Sally flew on the shuttle Challenger on June 18, 1983 and on a second mission
in 1984. At age 32, she was the youngest American to fly into space. She later
became the only person to sit on both the panels investigating the catastrophic
shuttle accidents, the Challenger explosion in 1986, and the Columbia crash in
2003.

Dr. Ride leaned on her well known ability to keep cool under stress when
speaking to reporters better for the first shuttle flight. She was subjected to
a barrage of questions focused on her sex: Would spaceflight affect her
reproductive organs? Did she plan to have children? Would she wear a bra or
makeup in space? Did she cry on the job? How would she deal with menstruation
in space? On "The Tonight Show", Johnny Carson crudely joked that the shuttle
would be delayed because Dr. Ride had to find a purse to match her shoes.

Only July 23, 2012, Sally Ride died in her home in La Jolla, CA after a battle
with pancreatic cancer. It was during her fight with cancer that she and
O'Shaughnessy registered their domestic partnership. Ride's obituary was the
first time it was publicly revealed that she and O'Shaughnessy had been
partners for 27 years, making Ride the first known LGBTQ+ astronaut.

Shortly before she died, O'Shaughnessy asked Ride "Who am I going to be in the
world?" to which Ride replied "Whatever you decide will be just fine."
O'Shaughnessy then realized that Sally was telling her to do what she thought
was best, and that she needed to be true to herself. On coming out,
O'Shaughnessy said "...it changed my life, and I wish Sally could experience
that."

More people are likely to learn about Dr. Ride's story when a TV series The
Challenger was released. Based on the book [The New Guys by Meredith E.
Bagby](https://www.harpercollins.com/products/the-new-guys-meredith-bagby?variant=41058530328610),
the series tells the story of NASA Astronaut Group 8 through the Rogers
Commission that investigated the Challenger disaster.

Resources:

- [Wikipedia - Sally Ride](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sally_Ride)

- [American Woman Who Shattered Space Ceiling - New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2012/07/24/science/space/sally-ride-trailblazing-astronaut-dies-at-61.html)

- [Loving Sally Ride - NPR](https://www.npr.org/2021/06/22/1009098412/loving-sally-ride)

- [Everything We Know About Kristen Stewart's New Astronaut Show The Challenger - Elle](https://www.elle.com/culture/movies-tv/a61046895/the-challenger-season-1-news/)
