---
layout: post
title: "US-RSE Pride Month Spotlight - Edith Windsor"
tags: [dei, pride-month]
---

US-RSE's [DEI working group (DEI-WG)](https://us-rse.org/wg/dei/) is proud to
help US-RSE celebrate and participate in Pride Month. Throughout June, the
US-RSE will spotlight LGBTQ+ individuals who have been involved in computing,
science, engineering, and/or math, and have inspired our members through their
accomplishments in their careers and their personal stories.

## This week's Pride Month spotlight features Edith Windsor

{% include image.html
url="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/4/4f/Edie_Windsor_DC_Pride_2017.jpg"
description="Edie Windsor at DC Pride, 2017, Photo by Rex Block, CC0
<https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/2.0>, via Wikimedia Commons"
style="float:right; padding:1em; max-width:350px;" %}

Did you know that the lead plaintiff in the US Supreme Court case that
overturned Section 3 of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) in 2013, leading to
marriage being expanded to include same-sex couples, was a systems programmer
at IBM and then a software development consultant in her own company?

Edith (Edie) Schlain was born in 1929 in Philadelphia. She graduated from
Temple in 1950, where she met her future husband, Saul Windsor, who she married
in 1951 and divorced in 1952. She later earned a master's in math from NYU in 1957.
She then joined IBM, where she worked for 16 years in senior technical
and management positions related to systems architecture and implementation of
operating systems and language processors. As AnitaB.org
[describes](https://anitab.org/profile/remembering-edith-windsor-tech-pioneer-equality-advocate/),
she started as a mainframe programmer and later rose to "the company's highest
technical rank, Senior Systems Programmer, on the strength of her top-notch
debugging skills. 'They couldn't fix the code because they couldn't read it,'
Edith told a journalist. 'But I could read code until it wrapped around the
room and back again. A guy I was working with said, 'give this woman a roll of
toilet paper, she can do anything.'" During this time, in 1963, she met and
began dating Thea Spyer, who asked Edith to marry her in 1967, and they began
living together six months later.

In her professional life, as AnitaB.org [continues to
describe](https://anitab.org/profile/remembering-edith-windsor-tech-pioneer-equality-advocate/),
"Edith left IBM in 1975, becoming the founding president of PC Classics, a
consulting firm specializing in major software development projects. During
this time, Edith also helped countless LGBTQ groups become tech literate. 'I
computerized everybody,' she quipped. 'I got calls from gay organizations that
wanted to computerize their mail systems. All of my IBM experience continues
throughout my life.' Her love of computing was personal, too — she was the
owner of the very first IBM-PC delivered in New York City." In 1993, when New
York City first began registering domestic partnerships between same-sex
couples, they registered. Because the US did not allow same-sex marriage, they
traveled to Toronto in 2007 where they were married. Two years later, Thea
died, and left her estate to Edie, but because the US did not recognize their
marriage, Edie had to pay taxes on the estate. This was the cause of her
lawsuit that led to Section 3 of DOMA being ruled unconstitutional, enabling
same sex marriage to become legal, after which the US government refunded the
estate tax.

Again
[quoting](https://anitab.org/profile/remembering-edith-windsor-tech-pioneer-equality-advocate/)
AnitaB.org, "Edith was recognized by the National Computing Conference as an
operating systems pioneer. In 2013, she was the Grand Marshal of the New York
City LGBT Pride March and a runner-up for Time's Person of the Year." She died
in 2017, and was eulogized by Hillary Clinton. Barack Obama said about her,
"America's long journey towards equality has been guided by countless small
acts of persistence, and fueled by the stubborn willingness of quiet heroes to
speak out for what's right. Few were as small in stature as Edith Windsor — and
few made as big a difference to America."

[Read more about US-RSE's planned Pride Month
activities]({% post_url 2025-06-13-pride-month %}).
