---
title: US-RSE Annual General Meeting 2022
subtitle: All Member US-RSE Event
location: Online via Zoom
expires: 2022-12-03
event_date: "December 2, 2022"
layout: event
repeated: false
category: association-meeting
duration: 120
time:
    - - start: 2022-12-02T18:00:00Z
        end: 2022-12-02T20:00:00Z
---

The third US-RSE Association Annual General Meeting (AGM) will take place on Friday December 2, 2022 from 1-3pm ET.

#### Registration

The AGM is open to all US-RSE members.
Members must [register in advance](https://princeton.zoom.us/meeting/register/tJ0oce6gqz8qG9Z1NB5rNLf2QMXAnBmbhi6Y).

Not a member yet? [Join](https://us-rse.org/join/) now!

#### Agenda

1. **State of the US-RSE Association: The 2022 year in review and plans for 2023** 
Ian Cosden, current chair of the Steering Committee, will give an organizational overview of US-RSE including a review of past events and initiatives, updates on current initiatives, and an outline of some future plans and goals for the Association.
1. **Updates from Working Groups**  
  Representatives from US-RSE working groups will give brief updates on recent activities and plans for 2023.
1. **Meet the Steering Committee Candidates**  
 The candidates running for the open 2023-2024 Steering Committee seats will introduce themselves to the community via pre-recorded videos ahead of the upcoming election. There will not be a candidate Q&A at the AGM; instead use the #elections channel in Slack to ask the candidates questions.
1. **Financial Status and Budget Review**  
  Julia Damerow, US-RSE Treasurer, will provide an update of the US-RSE finances and present a preliminary budget for 2023.
1. **US-RSE leadership Q&A & Open Member Discussion**  
   To help with planning, those interested in asking a question or raising a member-wide discussion topic can submit their questions/topic prior to the meeting using [this form](https://forms.gle/gKqYTF4tPdef184S9). Live questions or discussion topics are always welcome.



If you have questions or have suggestions of discussion topics please contact [contact@us-rse.org](mailto:contact@us-rse.org) or reach out via [slack](https://usrse.slack.com/).
